Today I'd like to talk about a course I taught two years ago titled "Art and Life:
Where They Intersect"
and in many ways that course was seminal to actually becoming the Laureate this year.
The course really dealt with
people's lives and the lives
that we live and how they actually
influence what we create or make as artists
and then I also looked at the way Art
actually might influence the way people
live their lives
The second
class I give a lecture on the psychoanalysis of creativity
and basically that deals with how
people's backgrounds in their
childhoods have influenced what they create and I talk about six artists.  All
the way from Janine Antoni to Alberto Giacometti
and it's quite
remarkable in these lectures to hear
about their backgrounds.  Giacometti
really stands out in the fact that
there was two separate occasions in his
lifetime where
he went to bed at night with someone
else in the room and woke up the next
morning and that person was dead
and uh...
If you look at his sculptures you can
sense that they deal with
mortality and the fragility of life.
And even - he had this obsession, this foot
fetish, and he would actually put his shoes
in a very special alignment before
he would go to bed with his socks
and if you look at his sculptures all his
,the figurative sculptures, the feet are oversized.
So you can draw any conclusions you want
about that relationship to his feet in these sculptures but it is compelling.
I just recently saw a remarkable
documentary titled
"The Finland Phenomenon"
And Finland the country is ranked number
one in the world by
on virtually any criteria you use in
terms of
its success educationally.
One of the things that really stayed with
me - they said that
in the average class in the United
States the teacher will speak eighty five
percent of the class time.
In Finland
the teacher will speak on average
only
forty percent of the class time.
And the rest of the time the students
are talking and interacting and they're
really concerned with not so much
what they memorize but teaching
students how to learn.
And I think that's sort of in many ways
the way I tried to approach this Art and Life
class.
The third class I ask all the students to come
prepared having written a two to three page
autobiography and come to
that class
prepared to read it
to their fellow students.  It was one of
the most amazing experiences I've ever
had as a teacher
in terms of how
idiosyncratic, personal, diverse
our students lives are and them having
the opportunity to share that
with their fellow students.  And it seemed
to establish immediately in this class a
real sense of trust
and respect
and a safe environment that was really a
launching pad for the rest of the
semester where we cover a myriad of topics
in terms of
ways that we engage know the world
creatively
everything from new media and technology
to the experience of silence and
reflection
and how rare that's becoming
to the senses and multisensory learning in terms of how touch
and sound
and experiencing our senses at the same
time leaves a sort of an indelible
impression.
And those are just a few of the things
that we cover in this
course called "Art and Life."
and I hope to share some more things
in the future with you.  Thank you.